<html>
<head>
	<title>Mercury Group Meeting Minutes - Monday 17 December 2001
	</title>
</head>
<body>

We had a meeting of the Mercury group on Monday, 17 December 2001.

<h1>Attendees</h1>
<ul>
	<li> Fergus Henderson (fjh) </li>
	<li> Michael Wybrow (mjwybrow) </li>
	<li> Lars Yencken (lljy) </li>
	<li> Paul Incani (paulai) </li>
	<li> Julian Grady (julianpg) </li>
	<li> David Overton (dmo) </li>
	<li> Simon Taylor (stayl) </li>
	<li> Zoltan Somogyi (zs) </li>
	<li> Julien Fischer (juliensf) </li>
</ul>

<h1>Apologies</h1>
<ul>
	<li> Ralph Becket (rafe) </li>
</ul>

<h1>Progress reports</h1>
<ul>
	<li> Fergus Henderson (fjh)
	<ul>
		<li>
			Announced that his paper with Zoltan on Mercury to
			high-level C compilation has been accepted by Compiler
			Construction.
		</li>
		<li>
			Has been working on accurate garbage collection for the
			high-level C backend.
		</li>
		<li>
			Has re-installed SUSE on hg after it was cracked
			yesterday.
		</li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> Michael Wybrow (mjwybrow)
	<ul>
		<li> Has class constructors working. </li>
		<li> Is starting to look at tags. </li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> Lars Yencken (lljy)
	<ul>
		<li>
			Has been spending time learning Mercury.
		</li>
		<li>
			Has been thinking about syntax for declaring exclusive
			and/or exhaustive switches
		</li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> Paul Incani (paulai)
	<ul>
		<li> Has been working on <code>string_format</code>. </li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> Julian Grady (julianpg)
	<ul>
		<li> Has been working on accurate garbage collection </li>
		<li> Has been looking at how closures are represented in the
		debugger. </li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> David Overton (dmo)
	<ul>
		<li> Has been working on HAL </li>
		<li> Is reading Jan-Georg Smaus's PhD Thesis on Modes in Goedel
		</li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> Simon Taylor (stayl)
	<ul>
		<li> Has been tidying up the new <code>mmake</code> feature in
		the compiler. </li>
		<li> Has been reading about the HAL optimisation framework.
		</li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> Zoltan Somogyi (zs)
	<ul>
		<li> Has added support for field names to the browser. </li>
		<li> Has added support for printing closures in the debugger.
		</li>
		<li> Has fixed some problem cases in the stack slot
		optimisation. </li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> Julien Fischer (juliensf)
	<ul>
		<li> Has been cleaning up and understanding the termination 2
		analyser. </li>
	</ul>
	</li>

	<li> Ralph Becket (rafe) (progress report submitted by email)
	<ul>
		<li> Has done some work on the book. </li>
		<li> Is continuing to work on the loop invariant hoisting
		optimisation (it works, but is sometimes a little too eager).
		</li>
		<li> Done a little more on the formalisation paper. </li>
		<li> Spent a fair bit of time helping out some of the summer
		students with various problems. </li>
	</ul>
	</li>
</ul>

<h1>Other Business</h1>

<ul>
	<li>
	We spent some time talking about the Windows port.
	Fergus said that having a good Windows port would be important for the
	Mercury language.
	The following tasks were assigned.
	<ul>
		<li> Simon will work on getting reading of transitive
		intermodule optimisation files to work. </li>
		<li> Fergus will work on removing cygwin dependencies and
		porting to mingwin.
		<li> Paul may be interested in working on the Visual Studio
		integration, but this is still to be confirmed.
	</ul>
	</li>
</ul>

<address>
Minutes taken by David Overton (dmo@cs.mu.oz.au)
</address>
</body>
</html>
