
<html>

<pre>
We had a meeting of the Mercury group on Fri Jan 12, 2001,
from 3:20pm to 4:15pm.

Attendees:
	Zoltan Somogyi (zs)
	David Jeffery (dgj)
	Mark Brown (dougl)
	Simon Taylor (stayl)
	Ina Cheng (inch)
	Levi Cameron (lpcam)
	Sam Thurairatnam (sthur)
	Simon Mei (xcsm)
	Julien Fischer (juliensf)
	Tyson Dowd (trd)
	Fergus Henderson (fjh)
	Thomas Conway (conway)
	David Overton (dmo)
	Nick Nethercote (njn)
	Adrian Pellas-Rice (apell)
	Kostis Sagonas (kostis@csd.uu.se)

1. Release

	- Fergus said he didn't want to do all the work himself.
	- Tyson suggested we use sourceforge to assign tasks.
		- Anyone interested in helping should create an
		  account on sourceforge.
		- Fergus will then assign the tasks using sourceforge.

	- Stuff still to be done before release:
		- Go through release checklist.
		- Fix a couple of outstanding bugs.
		- Fix a few test cases which have incorrect expected
		  output.

2. Progress reports

	We went around the table, with each person in turn discussing what
	they had been working on recently and/or what they were planning
	to work on.

	Fergus Henderson (fjh):
		- Wrote a new backend for Mercury last week,
		  interfacing directly to the GCC backend.
			- GCC team are interested in advertising the
			  new Mercury frontend for GCC on their web
			  site and including Fergus's changes to GCC
			  in their distribution.  This would involve
			  Fergus assigning copyright on his changes to
			  GCC to the FSF.  Zoltan will confirm that
			  the University is happy with this when
			  Alistair gets back next week.
			- There was talk about the idea of including
			  the Mercury compiler in the GCC distribution
			  (some GCC people have shown interest in
			  this) however the concensus was that this
			  was probably not a good idea for two
			  reasons:
			  	1. The Mercury compiler is way too big
				   for this.
				2. We would have to assign copyright
				   on the compiler to the FSF which we
				   are unwilling to do, since it might
				   cause problems if we want to change
				   licenses or integrate ``non-free''
				   code into our distribtion.
		- Has been working on a fix for the dynamic linking
		  bug in the MLDS backend.
		- Will look into the current bootstrapping problems
		  thought to be caused by Tom's changes to the `univ'
		  type.

	Kostis Sagonas (kostis@csd.uu.se)
		- Is currently visiting the department from the
		  University of Uppsala, Sweden, where he is head of
		  department.
		- His current research includes a native code compiler
		  for Erlang, on which he will present a seminar next
		  week.  Summer students are strongly encouraged to
		  attend and promised it won't be too boring.

	Thomas Conway (conway)
		- Is working on the deep profiling paper with Zoltan.
		- Changed the implementation of the `univ' type.
		- Has produced a cool (but rather geeky) Mercury
		  t-shirt -- copies can be made available to those
		  interested.

	David Overton (dmo)
		- Is working on integrating stage one and stage two of
		  the new mode checker.
		- Has been thinking about how to handle uniqueness
		  analysis in the new framework.
		- Plans to start writing a paper on what he has done
		  so far (need to talk to Zoltan and Peter Stuckey
		  about this).

	Nick Nethercote (njn)
		- Started his Masters Degree with the HAL team on
		  Monday.
		- Last semester started work on a general framework
		  for program analyses and implemented determinism
		  analysis in the framework.
		- Is now looking at other possible analysis domains
		  for this framework.

	David Jeffery (dgj)
		- Has spent most of the week working on HAL.
		- Fixed a couple of bugs.

	Julien Fischer (juliensf)
		- Has been working on an mlds -> mlds transformation
		  to simulate function pointers using derived classes.
		  This is needed for the Java backend and probably the
		  IL backend also.  Has been focussing on its use for
		  compare and unify predicates, but it will also be
		  required for closures and nondet continuations.

	Ina Cheng (inch)
		- Has got XML format responses working (in the web
		  server?)
		- Has discovered problems with using dynamic linking
		  with the MLDS backend.

	Levi Cameron (lpcam)
		- Has modified the bytecode system to differentiate
		  between preds and funcs.
		- Is working on integrating native code and bytecode
		  (with the ability to call both ways between them).

	Sam Thurairatnam (sthur)
		- Spent the week testing and commenting his code.
		- Submitted for review yesterday.
		- Work is currently being reviewed by Mark.

	Adrian Pellas-Rice (apell)
		- Has been adding a new functor to `hlds_goal_expr' to
		  use as a wrapper around all goals that are expanded
		  away after the first few stages of compilation (e.g.
		  bi-implication and, presumably, the new sequence
		  quantifiction?).
		- Has been talking with Peter Schachte and looking at
		  his Prolog code to do sequence quantification.
		- We discussed what name the new quantifier should
		  have.  Options were `all', `for',
		  `forall', `foreach'.  A consensus was reached that
		  `forall' is the generally preferred name -- it makes
		  it clear that it is a kind of universal quantification
		  whilst syntactically differentiatiing it from the
		  operationally different `all' quantifier.  (Fergus
		  thought `foreach' could be confused for existential
		  quantification.  Tom thought `for' would be much
		  better used for `for' loops rather than Ralph's
		  proposed `iterate'.

	Simon Mei (xcsm)
		- Added more functionality to quickcheck.
		- Discussed whether Mercury quickcheck would need its
		  own `main'.  Fergus said this is a seperate issue
		  (debugger support) and he should not worry about it.
	
	Tyson Dowd (trd)
		- Fixed some IL backend bugs after feedback from our
		  first user -- Peter Ross.
		- Has been working on the dynamic linking bug.
		- Plans to add a new `pragma foreign_proc' to replace
		  `pragma foreign_code' when defining procedures in
		  other languages.  This is to reduce confusion over
		  overloading of the latter pragma.

	Simon Taylor (stayl)
		- Still working towards an Aditi release some time in
		  the future.
	
	Mark Brown (dougl)
		- Reviewing Sam's work.
		- Has been writing his annual progress report (he will
		  be joining the 3 year club on Sunday).

	Zoltan Somogyi (zs)
		- Attempting to modify the C backends so that they
		  work with lcc.
		- New delay death pass has been done.
		- Working on deep profiling paper with Tom.
			  
3. Other items

	- It was agreed that the summer students should each write a
	  progress report, including a current TODO list and an
	  estimation of how much of their given task they will
	  complete within the next six weeks.

	- Fergus reminded us that all bugfixes should go on both the
	  release branch and the main branch.  People should note in
	  the log message when something is to be comitted on both
	  branches.  Reviewers should look out for cases where this is
	  required but hasn't been mentioned.

	- Zoltan made sure that everyone knew about his lmc script for
	  executing uninstalled copies of the compiler.  Tyson
	  volunteered to document the procedure on the web site.
	  Zoltan agreed to add his lmc script to the mercury/tools
	  directory in the cvs repository.

4. Agenda for next week

	- Discuss Unicode syntax for Mercury :-)


Minutes taken by David Overton (dmo@cs.mu.oz.au).
</pre>
</html>
