<html>

<pre>
Hi,

We had a meeting of the Mercury group on Fri Oct 13, 3:15pm to 4:05pm.

Attendees:
	David Jeffery <dgj>
	David Overton <dmo>
	Mark Brown <dougl>
	Zoltan Somogyi <zs>
	Tyson Dowd <trd>
	Fergus Henderson <fjh>
	Simon Taylor <stayl>

1.  Progress reports.

	We went around the table, with each person in turn discussing what
	they had been working on recently and/or what they were planning
	to work on.

	David Jeffery <dgj>:
		- Has been working on a paper on existential types (with fjh).
		- Has been debugging the typeclass bug reported by Nancy
		  Mazur (which is the same bug as was previously
		  reported by Tom Conway).

	David Overton <dmo>:
		- Had been finished off the change to support polymorphic modes
		  (i.e. allowing inst variables which can be instantatied
		  to any ground inst in mode declarations).
		  This will be committed soon (although it still suffers
		  from performance problems which may be an impediment
		  to using it widely).

		- Has been working on getting higher order working in
		  the new modechecker.

	Mark Brown <dougl>:
		- Has been working on extending the debuggers support
		  for parameter passing to the browser.
		- Some discussion ensued about how to implement
		  persistent parameters for browsing preferences.
		- Decided to implement a system where you could change
		  preferences inside the main debugger, or inside the 
		  browser, and such changes would be persistent.  
		  Later support could be added for making non-persistent
		  changes.

	Zoltan Somogyi <zs>:
		Nothing particular to report.

	Tyson Dowd <trd>
		Has been working on the IL back-end changes which have
		now all been reviewed.

		Some discussion about how it isn't yet possible to
		bootstrap because of the missing library components
		(parts written in C don't run out of the box on .NET)

		Tyson mentioned that Mission Critical was interested in
		help us port the library to C# (or some backend) for the
		.NET port.  

	Simon Taylor <stayl>
		Simon has been working on Aditi, and gave some
		information on what tasks still need to be completed
		before Aditi could be released.

	Fergus Henderson <fjh>

		- Has been busy refereeing papers and reviewing
		  changes.

		- Was interviewed by a journalist recently.

Minutes taken by Tyson Dowd <trd@cs.mu.oz.au>.
</pre>
</html>
